# Terrform .tfvars

- A Terraform ```.tfvars``` file is used to define input variables for your Terraform configuration. These variables can then be referenced within your
  Terraform configuration files ```.tf files```

- ```.tfvars``` files used to allow the separate configuratio value from your Terraform code. making it easier to manage different configurations
  for different environments (e.g., development, staging, production) or to store sensitive information without exposing it in your code

**uses of the .tfvars**
- Input variables are used the same configuration with different sets of values. This helps keep sensitive data, such as API keys or passwords,
  out of your main configuration files and makes it easier to manage different sets of variables for different environments (e.g., dev, stg, prod).

- Using .tfvars files allows you to easily change variable values without modifying the main configuration files.

- .tfvars files can override default values specified in your Terraform configuration. This allows you to provide environment-specific or
  user-specific values for variables without modifying the main configuration files

- When working in a team, each team member can have their own .tfvars file to set values specific to their environment or workflow to avoid conflicts.

**Here how we can use the .tfvars file**
- Define your input variables file in your Terraform configuration file (e.g., in a variables.tf file).

- Create one or more .tfvars files, each containing specific values for those input variables.

- When running Terraform commands (e.g., terraform apply, terraform plan), you can specify which .tfvars file(s) to use with the ```-var-file``` option:

- by default terraform will take the terraform.tfvars file, if you want to give the specific name to the file (dev.tfvars, stg.tfvars), you can do that, but we have to mention that file in terraform apply command.

```terraform apply -var-file=dev.tfvars```

# Below is the use of the .tfvars file that how we can use in Terraform configuration 
**main.tf file**
```
[root@ip-172-31-17-17 terraform]# cat main.tf 
provider "aws" {
  alias = "us-east-1"
  region = "us-east-1"
}

provider "aws" {
  alias = "us-west-2"
  region = "us-west-2"
}

resource "aws_instance" "example" {
  ami = "ami-0a699202e5027c10d"
  instance_type = var.instance_type
  provider = aws.us-east-1

  tags = {
    Name = var.instance_name
  }
}
[root@ip-172-31-17-17 terraform]# 
```

**variables.tf file**
```
[root@ip-172-31-17-17 terraform]# cat varibles.tf 
variable "instance_type" {
  description = "The type of EC2 instance to launch"
  type        = string
}

variable "instance_name" {
  description = "The name of the instance"
  type        = string
}
[root@ip-172-31-17-17 terraform]#
```
**dev.tfvars file**
```
[root@ip-172-31-17-17 terraform]# cat dev.tfvars 
instance_type = "t2.micro"
instance_name = "terra_instance"
[root@ip-172-31-17-17 terraform]# 
```
