# Input Variables:

- allow you to write configuration that is flexible and easier to re-use.
- you might have various components such as EC2 instances, security groups, and S3 buckets. Instead of hardcoding values directly into your
  Terraform configuration files, you can use variables to make your code more dynamic and reusable
- Input variables let you customize aspects of Terraform modules without altering the module's own source code.
  This functionality allows you to share modules across different Terraform configurations, making your module composable and reusable
- we can make different file with name ```variables.tf``` which will include the all variables,
  below is the sample example for the main.tf and variables.tf in terraform.

```
[root@ip-172-31-17-17 terraform]# cat main.tf 
terraform {
  required_providers {
    aws = {
      source  = "hashicorp/aws"
      version = "~> 4.16"
    }
  }

  required_version = ">= 1.2.0"
}

provider "aws" {
  region  = "us-east-1"
}

resource "aws_instance" "app_server" {
  ami           = "ami-0a699202e5027c10d"  # put the required AMI ID here
  instance_type = "t2.micro"

  tags = {
    Name = var.instance_name    # like this we can use the input variable in configuration
  }
}
```
```
[root@ip-172-31-17-17 terraform]# cat variable.tf 
variable "instance_name" {
  description = "name of the ec2 instance"
  type = string
  default = "terra-instance"
}
[root@ip-172-31-17-17 terraform]# 
```

In this example:

- ```variable``` is used to declare an input variable named instance_name.
- ```description``` provides a human-readable description of the variable.
- ```type``` specifies the data type of the variable (e.g., string, number, list, map, etc.).
- ```default``` provides a default value for the variable, which is optional.

# Output Variables:
- Output values make information about your infrastructure available on the command line, and can expose information for other Terraform 
  configurations to use. Output values are similar to return values in programming languages.
- Here how we can define the output values
```
output "instance_id"{
  description = "this is the instance id"
  value = aws_instance.app_server.id
}

output "instance_public_ip"{
  description = "this is public ip"
  value = aws_instance.app_server.public_ip
}
```
In this example:

- output is used to declare an output variables named ```instance_id``` and ```instance_public_ip```.
- description provides a description of the output variable.
- value specifies the value that you want to expose as an output variable. This value can be a resource attribute, a computed value, or any other 
  expression.






